# student-tracker

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- student_tracker - Code for the S3 Trigger and State Machine Lambda Functions.
- mail - API'S to send/notify recipients of the report card
- api - API fetch function to retireve marks 
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.
- 
## Deploy and Run the Student-Tracker application

1. Clone the repositry on your local machine using git.
2. To build and deploy the application, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build 
sam deploy --guided
```
3. Student Database has been Created based on student_personal_details.csv and can be found here https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/dynamodbv2/home?region=us-east-1#table?name=Student_details . The appropriate Schema has been defined according to students_assessment_details.csv
4. To trigger the State Machine we upload the desired assessment file into the s3 bucket using AWS CLI
   
```bash
aws s3 cp "<Source-path>" s3://student-tracker-presigns3-jpcnxtpwieck/ 
```
5. Once Uploaded Check the DynamoDB table for the updated values including percentage and Grade.
   
## Test the API's of the Student-Tracker application
1. All the API Endpoints are present in the Output Section of the Cloudformation Stack.
2. They can be tested locally on Postman.
3. The Parameters for the to test the API's are -
   - FetchAssessmentApiUrl : "ID" and "assessment"
   - FetchAllAssessmentApiUrl : "ID"
   - TeacherSESApiUrl : "class" and "teachers_email"
   - ParentSESApiUrl : "parents_email" and "ID"




## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
student-tracker$ sam build --use-container
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello_world/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
student-tracker$ sam local invoke HelloWorldFunction --event events/event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
student-tracker$ sam local start-api
student-tracker$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
      Events:
        HelloWorld:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            Path: /hello
            Method: get
```

## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
student-tracker$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name "student-tracker" --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

```bash
student-tracker$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt --user
# unit test
student-tracker$ python -m pytest tests/unit -v
# integration test, requiring deploying the stack first.
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
student-tracker$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME="student-tracker" python -m pytest tests/integration -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
sam delete --stack-name "student-tracker"
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
